#Title# DDD Tatics Build Blocks
Documenting the main DDD tactical building blocks, to futher understanding and implementation.
referece video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FOii23cFFUs&list=PLJ4k1IC8GhW2g13K8ILpHqasHIjJQ7w4r&index=8

Entities: 
An entity is an object from domain that has a unique identity that can have a lifecycle and mutable state throughout its existence.
It is the main building block to model your domain and build a system that reflects the real-world processes.

Each entity should have an unique identifier (ID) that distinguishes it from other entities, 
that is given at creatiion and remains constant throughout its existence.

Using .NET as an example, an entity can be represented as a class with properties and methods that encapsulate the domain logic, 
and your ID can be represented as a property of the class as follows: GUID, int, long.


Values Objects:
An value object is an object that represents a concept in the domain what is defined by its attributes, so by your properties state and not by a unique identity.
Value objects are immutable, meaning that once they are created, their state cannot be changed and normaly it belong to an entity.

caracteristics of value objects:

Immutability: once created, their state cannot be changed, any change will result in a new object.
Equality by value: two value objects are considered equal if all their properties are equal.
No identity: they do not have a unique identifier.
Validation on Construction: any validation logic should be applied when creating the value object to ensure its integrity.

Entity or Value Object Decision:
If the identity of the object is important and it has a lifecycle, then it should be modeled as an entity.
If the only important aspect of the object is its attributes then it should be modeled as a value object.

exemaple: 
into a library system, to the client (reader) the only important aspect of a book is its title and author, so it can be modeled as a value object.
but to the librarian each book copy has a unique identity (like a barcode) and a lifecycle (purchase data, monetary value, suffle location, client borrowing history) so it should be 
modeled as an entity.


Aggregates:
An agragate is a cluster of related entities and value objects that are treated as a single unit for data changes.

Repositories:
An repository is a mechanism for encapsulating storage, retrieval, and search behavior which emulates a collection of domain


Services:
An service is a stateless operation that encapsulates domain logic that does not naturally fit within an entity or value object.